#summary Introduction to Blazonry the pyBlazon way
=Introduction to Blazonry=

Blazonry is a stylized jargon for describing coats of arms.  In this site,
we will be dealing with describing shields in particular, but blazonry also
applies to the larger "achievement" of arms, including mottos, supporters,
crests, etc.

The point of blazonry is to provide a description of a shield that is
detailed enough to enable someone to draw a picture of it (maybe not a
perfect one) that does not differ from the original in any "significant"
way.  The nature of "significant" of course relies on the rules of
heraldry.

Blazonry has been compared to a primitive programming language, or maybe a
markup language like HTML or a drawing language like PostScript or SVG
would be closer.  And indeed, that is what this project is all about:
translating blazonry (or a subset thereof) into SVG.

=Tinctures and Treatments=

A shield is always "blazoned" or described starting with the background,
and working up in notional layers as charges are drawn on it and on each
other.  So the first thing in any blazon will be what the background of the
shield looks like.

The simplest background is a solid color.  The colors in blazonry have
special names:

|| _Or_ || _Argent_ || _Sable_ || _Gules_ || _Azure_ || _Vert_ || _Purpure_ ||
|| http://pyblazon.googlecode.com/svn/wiki/img/or.png || http://pyblazon.googlecode.com/svn/wiki/img/argent.png || http://pyblazon.googlecode.com/svn/wiki/img/sable.png || http://pyblazon.googlecode.com/svn/wiki/img/gules.png || http://pyblazon.googlecode.com/svn/wiki/img/azure.png || http://pyblazon.googlecode.com/svn/wiki/img/vert.png || http://pyblazon.googlecode.com/svn/wiki/img/purpure.png ||

Real mediæval heraldry uses the first five colors listed above more
frequently _by far_ than the others.  Rarely does a single shield have more
than three colors.  There are some lesser-used tinctures that pyBlazon
understands:

|| _Bleu Celeste_ || _Tenne_ || _Sanguine_ || _Murrey_ || _Rose_ || _Copper_ ||
|| http://pyblazon.googlecode.com/svn/wiki/img/bleuC.png || http://pyblazon.googlecode.com/svn/wiki/img/tenne.png || http://pyblazon.googlecode.com/svn/wiki/img/sanguine.png || http://pyblazon.googlecode.com/svn/wiki/img/murrey.png || http://pyblazon.googlecode.com/svn/wiki/img/rose.png || http://pyblazon.googlecode.com/svn/wiki/img/copper.png ||

There is a rule in heraldry that "metals" (_Or_ and _Argent_) should not
touch other metals, and "tinctures" (the other colors) should not touch
other tinctures; _i.e._, metals only touch tinctures and vice-versa.  But
that rule starts to get strange when dealing with furs (see below), and it
was not always observed even in mediæval times, so don't stress too much.
pyBlazon won't care.

==Furs==

Other "solid" treatments of the field (or charges) are called "furs":

|| _Ermine_ || _Ermines_ || _Erminois_ || _Pean_ || _Vair_ ||
|| http://pyblazon.googlecode.com/svn/wiki/img/ermine.png || http://pyblazon.googlecode.com/svn/wiki/img/ermines.png || http://pyblazon.googlecode.com/svn/wiki/img/erminois.png || http://pyblazon.googlecode.com/svn/wiki/img/pean.png || http://pyblazon.googlecode.com/svn/wiki/img/vair.png ||

You can also generalize these patterns by saying things like _Or ermined
gules_ (for ermine-style furs) or _Vairy or and sable_ (for vair-style).
There are also some other variants of vair recognized:

|| _Or ermined gules_ || _Vairy or and sable_ || _Counter-vair_ || _Vair in pale_ ||
|| http://pyblazon.googlecode.com/svn/wiki/img/or_ermined_gules.png || http://pyblazon.googlecode.com/svn/wiki/img/vairy_or_and_sable.png || http://pyblazon.googlecode.com/svn/wiki/img/counter-vair.png || http://pyblazon.googlecode.com/svn/wiki/img/vair_in_pale.png ||

See how to combine these on the PartyPer page, or if you don't want to get
more complicated backgrounds but want to see how to place shapes *on* the
background, look at the [Ordinaries] page.

==PartyPer -- for more complex treatments==
==[Ordinaries] -- for putting shapes on the shield==

