=Combining Charges and Ordinaries=

Shields often have both charges and ordinaries, though rarely more than one
kind of each.  Usually the charges are arranged around the ordinary, though
they can also go on top of it (see below).  Generally you can express this
fairly naturally:

|| _Or a bend gules between two lozenges sable_ || _Or a chevron gules between three roundels sable || _Or a fess wavy gules between three mullets sable_ || _Or a cross gules between four billets sable_ ||
|| http://pyblazon.googlecode.com/svn/wiki/img/or_a_bend_gules_between_two_lozenges_sable.png || http://pyblazon.googlecode.com/svn/wiki/img/or_a_chevron_gules_between_three_roundels_sable.png || http://pyblazon.googlecode.com/svn/wiki/img/or_a_fess_wavy_gules_between_three_mullets_sable.png || http://pyblazon.googlecode.com/svn/wiki/img/or_a_cross_gules_between_four_billets_sable.png ||

"Between" is the most natural term to use; "and" will also work.  Some
attempt will be made to arrange the charges around the ordinary in an
appropriate manner; it won't always get it right.

==Charges on Charges and Ordinaries==

You can place charges *on* ordinaries as well, or on other charges.  If there is a single charge (or ordinary) with other things on it, express it as in the examples:

|| _Or on a roundel sable a mullet argent_ || _Or on a bend sable three fleurs de lis argent_ || _Or on an escutcheon sable three triangles argent in bend_ || _Or on a roundel sable three mullets argent 2 and 1_ ||
|| http://pyblazon.googlecode.com/svn/wiki/img/notready.png || http://pyblazon.googlecode.com/svn/wiki/img/notready.png || http://pyblazon.googlecode.com/svn/wiki/img/notready.png || http://pyblazon.googlecode.com/svn/wiki/img/notready.png ||


Several things to note here:

  * The smaller charges are in fact shrunken down a bit to fit.  Maybe not shrunken down quite enough, in some cases.

  * You can place a group of more than one charge on top of a charge or ordinary.

  * Different charges/ordinaries force charges placed onto them to be arranged in different ways, by default.  For example, note that the three fleurs-de-lis on the bend are arranged in a row, though usually groups of three are arranged two-and-one.

  * Ordinaries can also impose other changes on the charges placed on them. Note that the fleurs-de-lis on the bend are actually rotated so they are "bendwise".  This is normal procedure for things charged on a bend.  Most other ordinaries do not rotate their charges, though.

  * You can specify an arrangement for the smaller charges just as you could if they were on the field, using "in pale" or "one and two" and so forth.

If you have more than one charge (or ordinary) with charges on them, you
word it this way:

|| _Or three roundels sable each charged with a mullet argent_ || _Or six escutcheons sable each charged with a bend argent_ || _Or three roundels sable in bend each charged with two triangles argent in pale_ || _Or four escutcheons sable 1 1 and 2 each charged with five roundels argent 3 and 2_ ||
|| http://pyblazon.googlecode.com/svn/wiki/img/notready.png || http://pyblazon.googlecode.com/svn/wiki/img/notready.png || http://pyblazon.googlecode.com/svn/wiki/img/notready.png || http://pyblazon.googlecode.com/svn/wiki/img/notready.png ||

Note that there can be one or more sub-charges on each charge, and that the
main charges can be arranged one way while the sub-charges are arranged
another way.  Note also, though, that you *can't* (easily) charge one
roundel with a mullet and another with two lozenges, for example.  This is
a limitation found in heraldry in general: you're not supposed to be doing
that.  (There may be a way to get pyBlazon to do it, but that doesn't make
it right).